I think we're recording and I think Lauren hopped off and I think we're all still here. So that's wonderful news. Thank you everybody for your patience. Um, let me reshare my screen and we will get started on this. While I'm doing that, I'll introduce myself. My name is Melissa Baker. I use she her pronouns. I'm the coordinated housing access supervisor. And I'm happy to be here with you all today to talk a little bit about our RFP. Jamie, do you want to introduce yourself? Sure. Hi, everyone. I am Jamie Stark. I'm the lead contract analyst for the SHS team. Thanks for being here today. Do we typically do a round all around introduction or just Okay, great. So um, am I are you seeing the agenda? Okay, this is great. It didn't have a typical little line around the screen. So I couldn't tell if it was sharing. So introductions, we're going to just go over some basic stuff on our RFP and then make sure that there's plenty of time to answer questions, ask questions. So kind of going over some key dates. These are in the RFP if you if that's helpful. Our program offer was released on April 21. And then any deadline for questions submitted in writing, correct, Jamie, is May 11 by 5pm. And then the deadline to submit a proposal is by 2pm on the 20th of May. So that's coming up in just a few couple weeks. June 1 is when we anticipate announcing the award and then the anticipated contract execution and service initiation will also be in June. Some things that we want to make sure are taken in consideration with this proposal. The county is the county's goal is to evaluate the proposed cost in relation to the scope of work, the provider's ability to produce the service, and the reasonableness of the expenses that are submitted in the RFP. We are asking programs to be ready to launch in June, again, of 2026. Or as soon as contracts are executed, just in case there's any delays. Programs will proposals will only be accepted through the bid locker. And I know it was true in the past, but is no longer you are no longer able to email submissions. It has to go through the equity hub bid locker. Just kind of going over the scope of work a little bit. And this is probably where we'll have the majority of our conversation. The hope for this RFP is that we're going to be we're looking for an agency to provide assessment, diversion approach and referrals for rental assistance using the housing problem solving approach. So that's something that everybody who is contracted with SHS at least is is participating in trainings for. And then also managing referrals to eviction prevention programs and other immediate housing stabilization resources. So people aren't calling the child line saying I need rental assistance, and then we're sending a referral to rental assistance. Most of the time rental assistance is not available. And so we have to encompass all of these other approaches and utilize the additional resources that most of the time aren't financial to help people stabilize in their housing and prevent losing their being evicted. And that's a key component of this job or of the scope. Folks will be receiving calls through CHA, the Coordinated Housing Access line, just as as it happens now. The difference is, is that when a client calls CHA, they when they select the option for rental assistance, instead of it being routed to our internal team, it will be routed to our new partner in this. And so the call will come

through the CHA line and routed out through the partner that is taking the rental assistance calls. It is important that any clients or other people or other callers that are interacting with the agency that gets this contract, they are routed through the main CHA line, which means we are doing everything we can to avoid side channels, back channels. It is not encouraged to, for example, have someone walk in or an existing client to just meet with somebody and not go through the CHA line and kind of get in through a side channel. And this is important because referrals are sent out first call, first serve. Maintaining close coordination with the CHA team is going to be vital in this process. Things change every day throughout the day. And so, we have regular touch points, regular opportunities to collaborate and meet and work together so that we can all be working in the same process. We will also be coordinating, utilizing similar access points and resources. So, it is vital that the contractor works closely and coordinates with the county CHA team that's going to be doing literal homelessness assessments for folks going on the by name list. And like I mentioned, regular check-ins, attending CHA team meetings, using real-time communication systems. For example, Teams is the primary system we use to communicate in real-time. And then finally, implementing a trauma-informed client-centered approach in all of our calls and seeking out and receiving the training for those, if that's needed. And I'm happy to open it up for questions. Please raise your hand or put something in the chat. I'm going to open up the chat right now. If you have any additional questions, please submit them to Jamie and her email is there. Again, the deadline for questions and writing is May 11th, and the proposal deadline is May 20th. And are there any questions? We can't hear you, Cindy. Go ahead, Cindy. I wasn't talking. Hi. I've got a couple of questions. One, it sounds as if this person is not going to be embedded in Clackamas County. This person or the team is just going to be using the CHA phone system, right? So the phone line will go directly to our team and we'll get that technology or whosever team will get that technology? So the team, because the RFP includes three FTE plus a 0.5 supervisor, you'll have multiple people answering your rental assistance line at the same time. So you'll have to put in the proposal, like how are you going to have like a multi-line phone system that can receive calls that are forwarded from our main line? And so all of this is kind of a technology behind the scenes component. The client will not feel anything. So you will have to have a system where multiple agents or multiple staff can be on a phone, like a phone tree system, when calls come in that are transferred from the main CHA line. Okay, that's a question. Thank you. That's question number one. And then are referrals made through HMIS directly or how do referrals happen? That's a great question. We're in the process of converting all of our referrals from front door and inflow and outflow of CHA through HMIS. We currently are not 100% there, but that is at the end of the day, that's something we will all be working towards in our relationship in this process. Right now, and probably once, even when the contract is executed, we're going to be utilizing a process that could be an email, like sending a secure email. It could be submitting like a Microsoft form that goes to a program spreadsheet, and it could be using HMIS as that referral. And we'll slowly get towards the point where everything goes through HMIS. Okay, I'll let Kirby ask.

before I am not going to take over all the questions I've got a list. No, that was a great segue, because I was going to ask about HMIS too. So, thank you for that. And I'm probably unfamiliar to all of you. My name is Kirby Rising. Super excited that we saw this opportunity. We actually do this in the exactly what you're looking for in the state of Colorado. For HMIS, are you all the administrators of HMIS as well, or is there a different administrator in Clackamas County for HMIS? We all fall under the umbrella of Portland Metro. Okay. There are three counties, Clackamas, Washington, Multnomah. We all fall under Portland Metro. Got it. And so, there's a lot of cross-communication through this. Okay, that makes sense. That was my big question for sure. And then as far as system goes for calls, what we've done in the past is like we have a call center set up. We have the phone system set up on the back end, and then we could use your line to forward into the call center and then track all the data that way. Is that how you envisioned it looking, or in a different way? So, are you saying like people would call your line, and then if it's something that is like a Clackamas County rental assistance call, it would get transferred to the CHAW line? No, we would probably use the CHAW line because that's what people will be familiar with. We wouldn't want to create additional barriers for people accessing the lines, and then it would essentially forward into our call center on the back end. So, it looks like one kind of unified approach to receiving those calls. Yeah, that's what we're envisioning as well. The 8575 number is our CHAW line. People would call that. That's what's out in the community. That's what everybody knows called CHAW. They would call that. If they call that right now, it'll say, hey, are you experiencing homelessness? Are you calling for rental assistance? You know, different options. If they say, I'm calling for rental assistance, then the phone tree would just send that to you, and it would ring your phones, and that would ring your phones, which have multiple lines with multiple people answering those calls. Ernesto? Well, I have a few clarification questions. First is, in the proposal, we have to add the way that we're going to receive the calls, or just the, I mean, so like, which system we're going to use, or how we're going to do it, right? Yeah, yeah, you need to let us know how you're going to be able to receive calls. Okay, great. Second, we, when normal family services, we do, in the past, we used to do this. We used to receive all the calls, they come in from the youth number, and then the number was to our, well, our phone organization, and then we answered those calls. We used to do the initial child assessment. This is going to be the same, or their assessment is going to be already being the system, and then we're going to pull the, we're going to add the entry in the system, or how this is going to work, or we don't know yet. It's going to depend on who's calling. So, if somebody has called, and they've called before, like, let's say we implement in June, and this person called today. When you pull them up in HMIS, they're already going to be there. They'll have something, whatever their needs are, they'll have something in there. So, it's just going to depend on who calls, and what their needs are, as to what you'll see in HMIS. When you say assessment, there's the program entry in HMIS that you open, but then there's what won't be happening, which is the CAT and the VI. So, this agency will not be doing our literally homeless, by name list assessment. That'll remain with the county. Okay, so, maybe, let me, let me ask. Somebody called that specific number, okay? That number, in the past, that number was directly to us, and then we opened the HMIS, and we do the assessment. So, my question is,

That person they call is going to go first to CHA and they go to the initial assessment and they can identify that it's for rental assistance and they're going to send it to us or it's going to be like the past day. They go straight to us. Good. Thank you for the clarification. They go straight to you. Okay. Perfect. So that means that we do the CHA assessment and then, okay. Other questions that I have? In the, as we know, the HMIS for YHDP, that was, we started this. We have partners already. We have all the organizations that are partnered with the YHDP program, okay. So who's going to be, or we already identified, which are the partners that we're going to refer them for the rental assistance? And they're going to be in the, by exit ramp or there's going to be already name it on the entry on CHA? That's a really good question. The way it's described in the RFP is this is a separate scope of work than, like it's the agency that gets this contract and already is doing homelessness services or rental assistance eviction prevention. This is a separate scope of work than that. And so any referrals or resources that are available, and again, this recognizing that there's an ongoing collaboration and conversation with the agency once we know who that contractor is going to be. But it's all going to be centralized, all the resource, like using the exit ramp, using our processes. So if there's additional rental assistance programs that come up that are available, then those will be centralized. And since you're the only ones that would be taking those rental assistance calls, you would be the ones referring. But it would be anybody who calls could potentially be eligible to be referred to those. Okay. And then the other question is really very technical. So I think it's going to be under GOV. But that's my main question. Yeah. And if you'd like as well, really technical questions, if you want to type them up and send them, we can address them that way too. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Cindy. Just following on what Ernesto was saying. So if they are coming directly to us or to the agency, the agency would then be entering them in HMIS so that they have an HMIS record. I just want to clarify that. Okay. Perfect. And then I don't use HMIS as much as everybody else in the world does. And so this is a clarifying question for my brain and probably will help Kirby because I don't know how much they're using HMIS. Does HMIS have the list of referring partners, which is I think what Ernesto was trying to get at previously when we were working with it. We had a list of these are the folks that you can refer to. Does HMIS have a list of, hey, here's who has capacity? And so then you put the referral through HMIS. Is that how that works with this system as well? That isn't how it works today. Right now we use a separate, it's like a separate document. Yeah. It's a spreadsheet. But it is like that centralized list that says who's open, who's closed, it would be accessible and visible to everybody. And my hope though would be because just recognizing that just using an Excel spreadsheet is not the most, you know, and as we're creating this improvement in the system, there's absolutely a need to make improvements in other parts of the work. So definitely open the collaboration with the contractor of like, hey, it can be easier and more accessible if we use HMIS and move it in. Let's talk to the data team and see if we can do this. Creating better processes is something we're always looking to do. Yeah, like if I want to add this is normally and I still got with YHDP is when the entries, YHDP, but only they can do the entry to YHDP is us. So we have an XE ramp. So when they do the child assessment, they have a link that is this Excel document. And then you see all the partners program in Excel document. And then you see the eligibility, if they receive it or not. And then you send them an email. And then through the email or the chat, they can see.

and then we get those referrals and then we do the entry. So that's how I think it still works. So hopefully, we can find a better light system. Yeah, and this is a new, this is a different shift. This is a shift away from what we've been doing for a while. And so just recognizing that there's going to be other things that we're going to do our best to anticipate everything in advance, like do our best with that change management. Work and they're going to be separate, it's going to have to work out as we're implementing, which is why we have a pretty healthy amount of time in the scope for implementation. Can I ask one last, hopefully, easy question before I hand it on to the other folks? Do you currently have eviction prevention resources? I know that that is a bit of a scarcity. So is there is because I imagine that part of the part of the conversation, since this is, you know, like the longer conversation with folks and giving a doing that diversion, I imagine some of this is going to be letting folks down and give them a little bit of a reality check about what is actually available. But do you have do you have some things already set up? Because I imagine you're somebody's having this conversation already. Right. Like you're currently having this conversation, even if it's not its own separate thing. Are there resources currently? There are. Yeah. OK. Of course, very limited. But we do have rental assistance like, you know, back owed rent that comes up regularly. We fill it like quickly because it gets filled up and we send the referrals very quickly. The vast majority of the work with folks that are calling in are going to be creative problem solving. It's going to be knowing the resources locally, landlord tenant mediation, being able to send referrals and figure and work with the client to figure out like what else is available to you. How can we shift the direction you're going, even though we can't give you rental assistance? But there are programs that exist that CHOW refers to for rental assistance. So can I ask a quick so it's so it could be that you were having multiple conversations with this person, with the people who call, it's not necessarily that it's a one and done. They call back. It could be similar to like YHDP that Megan is doing, which is diversion for youth, only not as involved because probably does not involve any amount of flex funds. Correct. Yeah. The approach would be very similar. OK, perfect. Thank you. Yeah. Tim. Thanks, and thanks, Melissa, for answering all the hard questions, just got a few for you, so just to confirm, it's first come, first served through the CHOW hotline. Is there a prioritization around like the amount of rent that's owed folks who are have evictions pending the amount of time that they have rent accrued for rent arrears? Just I want to confirm what the prioritization is. Yeah, absolutely. And I'm I apologize if I'm like getting weedsy here. I think from the perspective of like how how we do referrals in with CHOW and coordinated entry, that shifts more into eligibility for us. So like prioritization there is first call, first serve. Eligibility wise, yes, the programs have different caps. Programs have different like you have to have a court date or not like you have to have risk factors. And that determines like, are they eligible for anything that's that's available right now? Because if we have two people that are eligible, whoever called first is going to get that referral. So for prioritization, there isn't a prioritization, but there are eligibility criteria that have to be met. Great, I appreciate the clarification there. And then the only other question that I had was, I see that the bid itself says for 3.5 FTE. I'm struggling to figure out what the total amount that is being proposed, though, is. Is that available publicly or is it determining based on who is applying to the to the to the bid? Yeah, we're we're leaving it open and we're really using the proposed cost in relation to scope, capacity and the reasonableness of those expenses. Yeah. I appreciate it. Thank you so much. Kirby, well, I would say thanks for like posting about how many calls.

It would be and then like in relation to like the staff needed for that. Like you don't often see that on these bids. So that is such a huge, huge help. And also shows that you all know and have done the research on it. As far as well, 2 things language access. Are there outside of English? Are there specific languages that you serve more so than others? And then 2nd part of that question is would you be open to like an omni channel approach of like having a chat available on your website and then also like a real time text option for clients as well? And then further more embedding like a knowledge base with the resources and a guide to resources onto your website as well. Great questions. We currently have English and Spanish staff that are taking calls and then anything beyond English and Spanish we use language line for interpretations and translation services. And then as far as the chat and texting option, I mean I would really love to hear how you would incorporate that into your program model. Because there would be you'd have to take into consideration managing it, managing a chat, being able to provide equitable access to the services, equal assessment opportunities. We can't provide this much to one person because they call in on the phone and then this much because they're using a chat. So those will all be taken into consideration if you're able to provide multiple access points. And ultimately, I would love it if, you know, if one day we are able to offer those services in that way because it is much more accessible to be able to do that. And I'd love to hear from you about how you how you'd like to do that. We can do it. I'll explain it more. Yeah. And you had mentioned tracking the calls, how many calls come in, because the phone line keeps coming will continue to come through the main child line will continue to be able to continue tracking. So it won't be like, oh, now we can't track rental assistance calls will still be able to track it just as much in the future as we do now. Other questions. Well, I have a question about, as I tell you, I think it's way back on technical part. Is any requirements, the specific training they needs to the case managers or the people they're going to answer besides HMIS, they needs to be, well, I see some like trauma informed DB, but that is that is quite a time that they need to be trained. So what is the support about trainings that we're going to have for like the besides HMIS? Yeah. So I think first response is a key element in the approach that we have. We have a training in July. So whoever gets the contract, those staff will be prioritized to attend that training to make sure they get in as soon as possible. In addition, there's going to be training on HMIS on how to use it just depending on the level of knowledge. But doing it from the child program is a little bit different than doing it from like, you know, somebody who's providing case management is a different angle of HMIS. So that'll be required and supported. There's always ongoing training opportunities. And because we are we are asking for close collaboration, folks are the folks that are doing these calls, they're going to be attending our regular team meetings to stay on the same page as the rest of the team. And that's where we talk about, hey, there's we're doing an HMIS 101.

For people just to kind of re-up their skills, we are recognizing that there's a gap in this way that we're delivering our services, so we're going to do a refresh on that. So we have a very flexible ability to, like, when we identify that there's a need to strengthen a certain area of the work, we will create a training with whatever local expertise can provide it, and we will just offer it. Of course, we recognize that everybody can't jump off the phones and get into a training, so we're also very flexible about, like, making sure there's two of every single training so that we can split it and stuff like that. So there's some larger system-level trainings, sort of engagement is one that's a regular one coming up, and then also just, like, that regular, like, kind of more macro support And as things are identified, you get a new team member or something, and it's like, hey, we need help here, we'll figure that out, and we'll get the support there. I think I saw a hand for you, but maybe not. I had a reaction just thanking you for having multiple trainings, because oftentimes in these situations, you can't just shut off the phone lines when people are calling when they're expecting someone to be there, so I was just clapping for that, yeah. Was someone here, did they used to be a teacher, and they're good with the awkward silence? Is that what I'm seeing? I'm quite comfortable with silence. I think you've answered our questions, so thank you, appreciate it. If anything comes up for y'all, go ahead and shoot Jamie an email, and she'll get it to who needs to have it, and we'll get you your answer. Hope to see your proposals by the 20th, at two. Super, thanks, have a good weekend. Bye, Cindy. Bye.
